---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: API
category: docs
tags: [ 'tutorial' ]
---

### Store

__`getStore( name )`__

Returns the store, or undefined, if not exists.

__`createStore( name, descriptor )`__

Creates a store with given name and descriptor.
 
The descriptor is a Json object containing the store's available methods.
Keep in mind, that __nanoflux__ maps actions to store functions using the following convention: *actionName -> onActionName*
  
{% highlight javascript %}
var store = NanoFlux.createStore('myStore', {
	__items : [],
	// will be mapped to action name 'addItem'
	onAddItem  : function(item){
		this.__items = this.__items.concat(Immutable(item));
		this.notify();
	}
});
{% endhighlight %}

### Dispatcher

__`getDispatcher( name )`__

Returns the dispatcher, or undefined if not exists. If name is null or undefined, the built-in default dispatcher will be returned.
 
__`createDispatcher( name, actionList )`__ 

Creates a store with given name and descriptor. Passing *null* or *undefined*, refers to the built-in default dispatcher.
The *actionList* is an array of action names, that are going to be available as actions in the dispatcher ('fluxy'): 

#### Examples
Adds some actions directly ('fluxy way') to the *default* dispatcher
{% highlight javascript %}
var dispatcher = NanoFlux.createDispatcher(null,['addItem', 'loadItems']);
{% endhighlight %}

Creates a custom dispatcher.
{% highlight javascript %}
var myDispatcher = NanoFlux.createDispatcher('myDispatcher');
{% endhighlight %}


### Action Provider

__`getActions( name )`__

Returns the action provider, or undefined if not exists.


__`createActions( name, dispatcher, actionDescriptor )`__ 

Creates actions with given name and descriptor using the given dispatcher. This is the typical way, as it offers full control
 of your actions. It is considered as best practice to access Web API (async calls) within the actions.

Keep in mind, that __nanoflux__ maps actions to store functions using the following convention: *actionName -> onActionName*

{% highlight javascript %}
var dispatcher = NanoFlux.getDispatcher();
var myActions = NanoFlux.createActions('myActions', dispatcher, {
	addItem  : function(item){
		// will be mapped to store function 'onAddItem'
		dispatcher.dispatch('addItem', item);		
	},
	loadItems : function(){
		// async call - is a good practice to make web api calls on actions.
		itemService.getAll().then( function(items){
			dispatcher.dispatch('loadItems',items);
		}); 
	}
});
{% endhighlight %}

#### Dispatching

Within the actions one have to dispatch the action and its payload. The dispatcher object provides the *dispatch* method:

__`dispatch(actionName, payload)`__

The *actionName* is used for the action-store-mapping. Usually, you'll use the same name as the function's name. 
__nanoflux__ maps actions to store functions using the following convention: *actionName -> onActionName*.
The payload will be passed as argument directly to the store's method.

